Add comprehensive documentation to README, API.md, and source files (#9)
jahidulpabelislam/http: README.md

Reviewer: Add version requirement for jpi/utils

[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/jpi/http/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/jpi/http)
![GitHub last commit (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/jahidulpabelislam/http/1.x.svg?label=last%20activity)

A simple & lightweight HTTP library providing components to build web applications and APIs in PHP.

This library has been kept very simple, following the KISS principle.

## Features

> - **Routing**: Define routes with parameters, use controller classes or closures as handlers, generate URLs for named routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Routing**: Routes with parameters, controller classes or closures as handlers, named routes for URL generation
```

> - **Middleware Support**: Process requests through a middleware chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Middleware Support**
```

[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/jpi/http/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/jpi/http)
![GitHub last commit (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/jahidulpabelislam/http/1.x.svg?label=last%20activity)

> A simple & lightweight HTTP library for building web applications and APIs in PHP.

Reviewer: @copilot Should it say something about this having components to build a application?

This library has been kept very simple, following the KISS principle.

## Features

> - **Routing**: Define routes with URL parameters using `{param}` syntax, generate URLs for named routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Routing**: Define routes with parameters, generate URLs for named routes
```

> - **Middleware Support**: Process requests through a middleware chain before reaching route handlers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Middleware Support**: Process requests through a middleware chain
```

- **Request Handling**: Access query parameters, POST data, JSON bodies, uploaded files, headers, and cookies

> - **Response Building**: Create text or JSON responses with fluent interface for headers and caching

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Response Building**: Fluent interface to create text or JSON responses
```

> - **Controller Support**: Use controller classes or closures as route handlers

Reviewer: @copilot Should this be built/merged into feature one?

> - **File Uploads**: Handle single and multiple file uploads with simple API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/jpi/http/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/jpi/http)
![GitHub last commit (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/jahidulpabelislam/http/1.x.svg?label=last%20activity)

> A lightweight HTTP library for building web applications and APIs in PHP. It provides a simple routing system, request/response handling, and middleware support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A simple & lightweight HTTP library for building web applications and APIs in PHP.
```
@copilot Last sentence repeats the features list.

This library has been kept very simple, following the KISS principle.

## Features

- **Routing**: Define routes with URL parameters using `{param}` syntax
- **Middleware Support**: Process requests through a middleware chain before reaching route handlers
- **Request Handling**: Access query parameters, POST data, JSON bodies, uploaded files, headers, and cookies
- **Response Building**: Create text or JSON responses with fluent interface for headers and caching

> - **Named Routes**: Generate URLs for routes by name with parameters

Reviewer: @copilot Should this be merged into the routing line?

- **Controller Support**: Use controller classes or closures as route handlers

> - **HTTP Status Codes**: Built-in status code constants with standard messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

$ composer require jpi/http 
```

## Usage

This library consists of several main components that work together to handle HTTP requests and responses:

- **App**: The main application container that manages routing and middleware
- **Router**: Handles route registration and matching
- **Request**: Represents an HTTP request with access to parameters, headers, body, and files
- **Response**: Represents an HTTP response with status codes, headers, and body content
- **Route**: Defines a single route pattern with its handler
- **Middleware**: Chain of processors that can modify requests/responses

### Basic Setup

To create a basic HTTP application, you'll need to instantiate the main components:

```php
use JPI\HTTP\App;
use JPI\HTTP\Request;
use JPI\HTTP\Response;
use JPI\HTTP\Router;

// Create a request from global variables

> $request = Request::fromGlobals();

Reviewer: Don't import classes in code examples, use full namespace.

Example `$request = \JPI\HTTP\Request::fromGlobals();`

    return new \JPI\HTTP\Response(200, "Post");
});
```

### Named Routes

You can assign names to routes, which allows you to generate URLs for them later:

```php
$app->addRoute("/posts/{slug}/", "GET", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request, string $slug): \JPI\HTTP\Response {
    return new \JPI\HTTP\Response(200, "Post");
}, "post.show");
```

To generate URLs for named routes:

```php
$path = $router->getPathForRoute("post.show", ["slug" => "my-post"]);
// Result: /posts/my-post/

$url = $router->getURLForRoute("post.show", ["slug" => "my-post"]);
// Result: \JPI\Utils\URL object with full URL
```

### Request Object

The Request object provides access to all incoming request data:

```php
$app->addRoute("/search/", "GET", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request): \JPI\HTTP\Response {
    $query = $request->getQueryParam("q", "");
    $page = $request->getQueryParam("page", "1");
    $contentType = $request->getHeaderString("Content-Type");
    $method = $request->getMethod();
    $path = $request->getPath();
    $url = $request->getURL();
    $cookies = $request->getCookies();
    ... 
});

> $app->addRoute("/upload/", "POST", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request): \JPI\HTTP\Response {

Reviewer: @copilot Feels like this and above example could be merged and each method explained or atleast bit of description what it returns.

- **Route**: Defines a single route pattern with its handler
- **Middleware**: Chain of processors that can modify requests/responses

### Basic Setup

To create a basic HTTP application, you'll need to instantiate the main components:

```php
$request = \JPI\HTTP\Request::fromGlobals();

$router = new \JPI\HTTP\Router(
    $request,
    fn(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request): \JPI\HTTP\Response => new \JPI\HTTP\Response(404, "Not Found"),
    fn(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request): \JPI\HTTP\Response => new \JPI\HTTP\Response(405, "Method Not Allowed")
);

$app = new \JPI\HTTP\App($router);
```

### Defining Routes

Routes are defined using the `addRoute` method (either `App` & `Router`), which accepts a path pattern, HTTP method, callback, and optional name:

```php
// Simple GET route
$app->addRoute("/", "GET", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request): \JPI\HTTP\Response {
    return new \JPI\HTTP\Response(200, "Hello, World!");
});

// POST route
$app->addRoute("/posts/", "POST", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request): \JPI\HTTP\Response {
    $data = $request->getArrayFromBody();
    // Process the data...
    return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(201, ["message" => "Post created"]);
});

> // Named route (useful for generating URLs)

Reviewer: @copilot think there should be a Named routes section below `Route Parameters` section and existing bits for it moved there.

    $method = $request->getMethod();
    $path = $request->getPath();
    $url = $request->getURL();
    $cookies = $request->getCookies();
    
    return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, ["query" => $query, "page" => $page]);
});

$app->addRoute("/upload/", "POST", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request): \JPI\HTTP\Response {
    $postData = $request->getPostParams();
    $jsonData = $request->getArrayFromBody();
    $files = $request->getFiles();
    $authorId = $request->getAttribute("author_id");
    
    return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, ["received" => true]);
});
```

### Response Object

The Response object allows you to build HTTP responses:

```php
$response = new \JPI\HTTP\Response(200, "Hello, World!");

$response = \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, ["message" => "Success"]);

$response = (new \JPI\HTTP\Response())
    ->withStatus(200)
    ->withHeader("Content-Type", "text/html")
    ->withBody("<h1>Hello</h1>")
;

$response = \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, ["data" => "..."])
    ->withCacheHeaders([
        "Cache-Control" => "public, max-age=3600",
        "ETag" => true, // Automatically generated from body
    ])
;
```

### Middleware

> Middleware allows you to process requests before they reach your route handlers:

Reviewer: @copilot Mention that an array of middlewares can be passed to `App` too.

```php
class AuthMiddleware implements \JPI\HTTP\RequestMiddlewareInterface {
    use \JPI\HTTP\RequestAwareTrait;
    
    public function run(\JPI\HTTP\RequestHandlerInterface $next): \JPI\HTTP\Response {
        $token = $this->request->getHeaderString("Authorization");
        
        if (!$token) {
            return new \JPI\HTTP\Response(401, "Unauthorized");
        }
        
        $this->request->setAttribute("author_id", 123);
        
        return $next->handle();
    }
}

$app->addMiddleware(new AuthMiddleware());
```

### Handling the Request

Once routes and middleware are configured, handle the incoming request and send the response:

```php
$response = $app->handle();
$response->send();
```

> ### Complete Example

Reviewer: @copilot Is this complete example just a repeat?

$ composer require jpi/http 
```

## Usage

This library consists of several main components that work together to handle HTTP requests and responses:

- **App**: The main application container that manages routing and middleware
- **Router**: Handles route registration and matching
- **Request**: Represents an HTTP request with access to parameters, headers, body, and files
- **Response**: Represents an HTTP response with status codes, headers, and body content
- **Route**: Defines a single route pattern with its handler
- **Middleware**: Chain of processors that can modify requests/responses

### Basic Setup

To create a basic HTTP application, you'll need to instantiate the main components:

```php

> // Create a request from global variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

$request = \JPI\HTTP\Request::fromGlobals();

> // Create router with 404 and 405 handlers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

$router = new \JPI\HTTP\Router(
    $request,

>     fn($req) => new \JPI\HTTP\Response(404, "Not Found"),

Reviewer: Type hints on $req and update to `request`.

    fn($req) => new \JPI\HTTP\Response(405, "Method Not Allowed")
);

> // Create the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

$app = new \JPI\HTTP\App($router);
```

### Defining Routes

Routes are defined using the `addRoute` method, which accepts a path pattern, HTTP method, callback, and optional name:

```php
// Simple GET route
$app->addRoute("/", "GET", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request) {
    return new \JPI\HTTP\Response(200, "Hello, World!");
});

// Route with parameters
$app->addRoute("/posts/{id}/", "GET", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request, string $id) {

>     return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, ["post_id" => $id]);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, ["id" => $id]);
```

});

// POST route for creating resources
$app->addRoute("/posts/", "POST", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request) {
    $data = $request->getArrayFromBody();
    // Process the data...
    return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(201, ["message" => "Post created"]);
});

// Named route (useful for generating URLs)
$app->addRoute("/posts/{slug}/", "GET", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request, string $slug) {
    return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, ["slug" => $slug]);
}, "post.show");
```

### Route Parameters

Route parameters are defined using curly braces `{param}` and are passed as arguments to your route handler:

```php
$app->addRoute("/posts/{category}/{id}/", "GET", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request, string $category, string $id) {
    return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, [
        "category" => $category,
        "post_id" => $id
    ]);
});
```

### Using Controllers

Instead of closures, you can use controller classes for better organisation:

```php

> // Define your controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> class PostController {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
final class PostController {
```

    use \JPI\HTTP\RequestAwareTrait;
    
    public function show(string $id) {
        // Access request via $this->request
        return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, ["id" => $id]);
    }
}

// Register route with controller
$app->addRoute("/posts/{id}/", "GET", "PostController::show");
```

### Request Object

The Request object provides access to all incoming request data:

```php
$app->addRoute("/search/", "GET", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request) {
    // Query parameters
    $query = $request->getQueryParam("q", "");
    $page = $request->getQueryParam("page", "1");
    
    // Headers
    $contentType = $request->getHeaderString("Content-Type");
    
    // Method and path
    $method = $request->getMethod();
    $path = $request->getPath();
    
    // URL information
    $url = $request->getURL();
    

>     // Cookies

Reviewer: There is a lot of comments like this against ver simple line of codes, can you review and remove.

    
    // Cookies
    $cookies = $request->getCookies();
    
    return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, ["query" => $query, "page" => $page]);
});

$app->addRoute("/upload/", "POST", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request) {
    // POST data
    $postData = $request->getPostParams();
    
    // JSON body
    $jsonData = $request->getArrayFromBody();
    
    // File uploads
    $files = $request->getFiles();
    
    // Custom attributes (set by middleware or route handlers)
    $userId = $request->getAttribute("user_id");
    
    return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, ["received" => true]);
});
```

### Response Object

The Response object allows you to build HTTP responses:

```php
// Text response
$response = new \JPI\HTTP\Response(200, "Hello, World!");

// JSON response
$response = \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, ["message" => "Success"]);

// Fluent interface for building responses
$response = (new \JPI\HTTP\Response())
    ->withStatus(200)
    ->withHeader("Content-Type", "text/html")
    ->withBody("<h1>Hello</h1>");

// Adding cache headers
$response = \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, ["data" => "..."])
    ->withCacheHeaders([
        "Cache-Control" => "public, max-age=3600",

>         "Expires" => new \DateTime("+1 hour"),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    $page = $request->getQueryParam("page", "1");
    return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, [
        "users" => [],
        "page" => (int)$page
    ]);
});

$app->addRoute("/users/{id}/", "GET", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request, string $id) {
    return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(200, [
        "id" => $id,
        "name" => "Example User"
    ]);
});

$app->addRoute("/users/", "POST", function(\JPI\HTTP\Request $request) {
    $data = $request->getArrayFromBody();
    // Process creation...
    return \JPI\HTTP\Response::json(201, ["id" => "new-user-id"]);
});

// Handle request and send response
$response = $app->handle();
$response->send();
```

### Generating URLs for Named Routes

If you've given routes names, you can generate URLs for them:

```php
// Register a named route
$app->addRoute("/users/{id}/posts/{postId}/", "GET", "PostController::show", "user.post");

// Generate path
$path = $router->getPathForRoute("user.post", ["id" => "123", "postId" => "456"]);
// Result: /users/123/posts/456/

// Generate full URL
$url = $router->getURLForRoute("user.post", ["id" => "123", "postId" => "456"]);
// Result: \JPI\Utils\URL object with full URL
```

> ## API Reference

Reviewer: There is some lines in the `API Reference` section that is explained in the examples above, no need to repeat here.

Example constructing a `App`. Or things around `Router.

Reviewer: @copilot

Reviewer: @copilot Can you check all classes under the `###` section?

Reviewer: @copilot sorry can you revert these and move the classes section to another md file.

**Static Methods:**
- `fromGlobals(): Request`: Create a request from PHP globals ($_SERVER, $_GET, $_POST, etc.)

**Methods:**
- `getMethod(): string`: Get the HTTP method (GET, POST, etc.)
- `getPath(): string`: Get the request path
- `getPathParts(): array`: Get the path split into parts
- `getPathPart(int $index): ?string`: Get a specific part of the path
- `getQueryParams(): Input`: Get all query parameters
- `getQueryParam(string $param, $default = null)`: Get a specific query parameter
- `hasQueryParam(string $param): bool`: Check if a query parameter exists
- `getPostParams(): Input`: Get all POST parameters
- `getArrayFromBody(): Input`: Parse JSON body as array
- `getFiles(): array`: Get uploaded files
- `getCookies(): Collection`: Get cookies
- `getServerParams(): Collection`: Get server parameters
- `getServerParam(string $param, string $default = ""): string`: Get a specific server parameter
- `getURL(): URL`: Get the full request URL
- `setAttribute(string $attribute, $value): void`: Set a custom attribute
- `getAttribute(string $attribute, $default = null)`: Get a custom attribute
- `getAttributes(): Collection`: Get all custom attributes

> - `makeURL(string $path): URL`: Create a new URL based on the current request

Reviewer: @copilot Can you use full namespace for type hints in this `API Reference` section too please
